So we are moving on then to chapter 11.
And in chapter 11,
we go back to our old friend Flexbox.
Phew, everybody says, thank goodness,
something that I kinda
know something about.
So now that you know what Grid does,
all the amazing things that it does,
what does that leave for Flexbox to do?
Great question.
Let's take a look.
So if Grid is gonna do all
this amazing work for us,
where should we be using Flexbox?
So, I thought a lot about this question.
And what I have come up with are these,
particularly these items as guidance.
So first of all, a series of
boxes that are not the same size.
So remember with Grid in, even though
we can make Grid like different sizes,
those were different sizes all
the way down the page, right?
So Henry, if we said two fr,
one fr it was gonna be a fat column on
the left all the way down the page.
With Flexbox,
we can literally have a different size for
everything single item
that we are working with.
Can anyone think of a structure on a page
where we routinely have a bunch of boxes
that have different sizes?
File, that one away, yeah?
>> Google Photos has all these different
size and different ratio and asset ratio.
>> There you go, that might be
something where Flexbox would be good.
That would be great.
There's another answer.
It's almost on almost every web page.
I'll tell you in a minute.
A series of boxes that
are not in an even size grid.
So somebody asked yesterday, what would
happen if I want three cards across, and
then I want two cards lined up
underneath those three cards?
Not possible with Grid.
Grid is designed to be a grid,
[LAUGH] and that is not a grid.
So you need Flexbox in order to
achieve that kind of layout.
And I think another thing that we should
consider is that when the same space
between elements is really important, but
not the same width of each
element in our particular layout.
So Flexbox can keep that same space no
matter how wide or narrow each one of
those boxes are, that would also describe
one of these common UI elements.
And then remember that
Flexbox is it's in the name.
It wasn't designed to be locked down for
layouts.
They're supposed to be flexible boxes,
right?
Not really designed to be locked down.
So we have done a lot of hacking with
Flexbox through via Bootstrap and
Tailwind and all the rest of those,
and we've even done our own hacking.
If you look at previous
versions of this course,
I have done that very hacking in
order to achieve those layouts, but
that was back before Grid was widely
supported by all of the browsers.
So here's some examples of
what I was just talking about.
So here's a series of boxes that are not
the same size, but the space between
is important because it looks weird
when the space is not the same between.
I put a little border around
each of these items here and
something that looks like a nav bar, so
that you can kind of see the space in
between those items is
pretty much the same.
And clearly the space are the widths for
each one of those items is different,
right?
So nav bar is great place to use Flexbox,
okay?
Here's an example of a series of boxes
that are not in an even kind of Grid.
We wanna have three on the top,
we wanna have two on the bottom.
This is what that kind of
layout would look like and
Flexbox is really good at this, okay?
And so these are gonna be the two examples
that we're going to work through next,
how do we make that?
[LAUGH] And
how do we make a navbar using Flexbox?
Which by the way, very cool,
we can of course change its layout across
media queries as well, so
we're gonna look at that too.
There are a whole series
of Flexbox properties.
Notice there are actually fewer
here than there were with Grid.
Please also pay attention
to the link at the bottom,
which is CSS tricks link to
all of the Flexbox properties.
And again, we know CSS tricks is not
being updated on a regular basis, but
Flexbox doesn't really have
much of anything new either.
So this is still a really
great reference to use.
And then finally,
you can have your Flexbox Froggy.
Remember that these games are gonna teach
you more about properties and values.
They really don't teach you how to think
about the problems when it comes to
laying out web pages.
So a lot of people online will tell you
if you wanna learn Flexbox, just go play
that Flexbox Froggy, and it is true you
will learn like justify content and
you'll learn display flex and
all those kinds of things.
But you're not gonna learn like how do I
think about the actual problem that I'm
trying to solve?
So Flexbox Froggy, Flexbox Defense,
and Flexbox Adventure,
great places to go, super fun,
learn some properties and values.